okay day three of doing liav stuff uh so
last time I was able to write this rust
program that captures some frames and
writes them uh
to disk we're going to try to do the
exact same thing in C just to like
reinforce the API in my in my mind um
we're going to try this again oh wait
this should actually
okay so that's
good uh so what's we don't need this we
don't need this we don't need this we
don't need this okay so what is it that
I
do so after initializing
the input into PS which is a format
context Al format context find the input
format open the
input this given that we want
what is that all or is it a function
and we should be able to
say okay but that's the H we actually
want AV device.
c not that
H let me just try
to hello
what if I just do
this I have no idea what that is that's
fun but that doesn't work okay okay
regardless we don't need that
so we
open the
input then we get the stream from it so
the way that I can do
that I think is format context to
streams to stream
index and then what is this codec
parameters right this has
right and then so this is Av
stream index ID so it stores the index
stores format specific stream
ID set by user for
encoding what is it that I'm doing here
I'm finding a stream of data I
guess then we want a
decoder all right so if I just do this
probably says the unsafe AV codec
parameters to
context so we should probably just call
that okay so then we probably do want
this let's um
uh does this not take any
input
um okay so there now we probably click
on it okay cool so it takes a codec and
then a AV
codec so wait we should probably be able
to do
code let's comment this out code
eam does that
return none of these actually
return a
codec so let's see what does this do
it takes a context which
is uh codec context right so if I click
on this this is an AV codec
context and then it takes
parameters and it
okay okay so we just need
to we just need to do this
I'm down with
that so then we want to
do
this codec
context codec
parameters okay then I want to print
something out print out codec ID all
right let's see if that
works okay whatever that means uh Cod
find codec a
find codc ID what is this this probably
returns a codec
ID
yeah uh so
AV
codc decode I don't know what to say
there what does this
return a okay yeah
avcodec Fu
equals that
what's wrong
here okay
cool so we have a pointer to an AV
codec and so let's try to print
something
out braw video long name let's see what
the what is the long name okay it's long
it's raw video too
okay I feel like this is going pretty
well to be
honest what is the dock string for AV
input
format I I hate the document I hate that
it link it goes to the end of this
thing okay where is where is it where is
it h come on
wait if I just hover over this will it
tell me no come on
see tell me the dog
string what the hell is that thing
anyways so you open the
input open an input stream and read the
header oh wait should I be doing that
probably is there anything else that I
need to
[Music]
do encoders
decoders all sorts of good stuff
okay so what's
next right we need the scaler to do
the pixel type conversion
okay so we have
a we have
a what what is that exactly it's um
you know what the more I do this the
more I'm like C is really not that bad
once you get set up with C even if
you're on Windows it's fine I don't know
about C++ I still want to hate
C++ cuz [__]
C++
um okay so what is stored in
here this dock string is so
garbage this says nothing about what it
what it is
that's what I actually want it to link
to but what or to click
to
okay
so this
is the decoder so wait I should be able
to do
I should be able to do just codec
context 2
codec does that not work why is
that okay what does this do then
I guess I just don't need to do that
then but I mean this is probably fine
this is probably the same thing
because is there a stru called
decoder I don't think so okay now we
need to get a scaler we need to include
s SWS
include s
SWS is that
all is
it
okay I don't know if we need anything
else uh yeah let's change this to codec
actually want to run this and see if the
light lights up oh it does so that's
cool I like that the light is on that
there that there's a light on these
cameras that let you know when it's
open um
okay so I don't know why that
fails but now we need to get a scaler so
this is a everything has a context so
okay we're going to
make then a
definition
interesting okay so let's just say s
SWS
context get context
width height pixel
format okay that seems pretty
good what's
wrong where is
s
huh
wait I don't know what else do I need
okay can we just see where it's do I do
this where is this
defined is it a versioning issue why
can't
I uh
there is
it what
is it that I don't have this in my FFM
Peg
build that is honestly
possible wait you know what it's
probably the it's probably a missing
linking thing
yeah um
wait but that is that even true let's
try to run
this okay but then in
my
uh no but I have it let's see if I go
here why can't I get
it is it did I spell it wrong
what the hell wait did it actually error
on
compilation
unknown
okay
for e
okay what does this thing
do context what is this function
get H come on
man that's exactly
what do we have this okay
wait then okay so it is a problem of
just some
[__] no it doesn't know this but
then why does my editor know about this
maybe I should just build FFM Peg it' be
30 minutes and then i' be done with
it okay wait where is
the I feel like this is the full it's
the full shared
so should have have
it wait do I have to do this
[__] what did it
say wait but I
am linking against s SW scale and
resample and I have the include I have
the lib
that fixes the whole
thing can I see where they let's let's
look at a let's look at a call to
this in the source code
okay
well let's just see if it compiles now I
guess I guess that's what you have to
do let's see if it even recommends that
uh that that is indeed what you have to
do
did I include the
code
yeah H something seems to have gone
wrong yeah it's that you fail you Epic
we
fail it always it always tells me about
the warnings I couldn't give a [__]
about the
warnings lib
yep oh wait what
okay whatever I think we should just
move on we'll see if this cause is
actually an issue later so now we have
the
scaler wait is that the scaler the
context yeah that's the scaler so I'm
going to call that
scaler okay
now we have a function that we're going
to
write takes a video the hell is a video
yeah these bindings are actually really
annoying whatever let's do a print
statement what did I do hold on let's
see scaler
wait if I do
this yeah
that do I have to put null there
ah
Source filter yeah we can just do
this wait what is the dock string for
this allocate and return so this
probably actually
does it all
I'm so confused
man for
this is one of these issues where you're
just like
okay wait did we
find so they that's that's what they did
and then they were able
to okay maybe it's all
right I just wish I could print out some
information cuz this is a
struct that
has I don't know does it have any data
in it maybe it just doesn't have any
data okay so this is all just clean up
[__] kill that okay so we are moving
steadily along I just need to know how
to get this video
so let's see what does this function
call this function takes in a
decoder right yeah
decoder looks for the
codec open
as open the decoder as
a AV codec open to self as mute pointer
codec as pointer and then no
options and
then okay if it's
okay
it so op of f which a function wants to
another
result
so so it
takes oh that's implemented for result
okay
so wait if we go here and we call this
so what is
this okay so wait so the the call that
we really wanted was AV codec open or
something and this is going to
take an AV codec context and the codec
and then a null pointer okay
so let's just do that
okay let's just make sure that it works
still
okay so wait so what's next
is so we have that we just need the
video
thing so what function gets called
here so that returns an
opened so wait actually we probably
should look at
this I don't know I don't really
know what that
means
oops okay what's next is we need to get
the
video and a video is just a wrapper
around
opened an opened is a what
the okay whatever
confusing
wait maybe we just don't even need
that I don't know what the video is
though well okay I don't really
understand these wrapper structs
what is this syntax
mean but I think we're for the most part
good so now we want to rewrite this
function for
oh
[Music]
can I just do
that I think
decoder
codec wait it's probably
like AV
oh I see
cool going have to include image utils
or something so that we can actually do
this
um what does it return can I hover over
this to get the whole
thing
hello how come I can't see what the hell
this thing
does oh well whatever it returns a
result that's fine
so it takes a
codec video empty what does this
do frame
empty AV frame Alec
Okay so
right so so this
comes
straight from the cam I
guess okay I think that makes sense so
now we
have but here this actually Al but the
thing is this thing doesn't this is just
a container so it probably doesn't
allocate that much
data
um okay so decoder receive frame this
calls AV receive AV codec receive
frame okay so we're just going to cuz
since we're only doing literally
one
thing so this is going to take the codec
oh no this is the codec
context and then this is the
frame can this
returns int
uh int uh uh F R equals this
print
okay
so frame received minus1 what does the
return even mean
there okay other negative error code
legitimate decoding errors so something
happened and I have no idea
what oh wow that's cool that it gives me
this thing
though okay
decoded what is that
[Music]
what hell are you talking
about you have to do
this I don't
know well receive frame I think I'm
receiving a frame before I'm sending a
frame that is what I
think
okay stream
index
packet
okay what would this wait hold
on how would I write the
okay well let's just see what packets
does so we have an input context and we
iterate the packets but I
don't okay so this is Av format context
wrapper input is a wrapper on AV format
context for
sure so that is format context so if we
do
[Music]
how do you iterate the packets that is
what we want to
know
so
this
wrap
format
packets so it gives it a self but then
when I
call
next
this
okay
presumably I can do like
[Music]
a I don't know if it's able to
calculate what that is zeroed but let's
just say
let uh AV
packet packet equals Alec the packet
then where were
we then we initialize the
packet I don't actually know what this
does
this whatever probably just calls Malik
or something then this
oh can I just do
that wanted payload set I have no idea
what that even means does this take
another argument
no send packet to
packet all right let's just try to run
that
is it did it
fail that's crazy that it lets you you
do that
actually just give the totally wrong
struct is there s SWS scale let's see
scaler run run
scaler s SWS
run let's see what it actually
does
video I wish there was docs here bro AV
get frame frame AV frame get buffer
all right we'll get there let's
see
okay do
this
this so what do we need to do we send
the packet
right and let's see what next does
again uh packets new next so
next it actually does
call avait packet and then wraps
that and then it
calls that
read AV read frame
and what does that
do I don't actually know what that does
but if it's okay then it
wraps okay and then this stream in zero
okay next actually returns oh a tuple
right a
tuple of a stream and a packet so the
packet iterates tuples and I guess that
this just keeps the
stream okay so what I
want is the
thing read pause read playay I have no
idea what that
is takes a stream
context and an
index trans mute
copy packet. stream I wonder what does
that
do okay so that just says so okay so
let's do this
if that's the
case then we should be able to
do decoder send
packet AV code extent pack okay and then
now we just need to decode it so wait
actually I want to print out I want to
print this thing out
again I'm guessing it's still going to
be minus1 or
something oh we're going in the wrong
direction
I think it's just going to totally
hallucinate that answer so maybe no
maybe not
wait did we ever do receive receive
frame okay wait I want to actually look
at
print
uh okay so let's just try that again
frame format minus one that that
probably means that it's not
set so then I want to redo that after
this so it's not getting changed at
all
God decoded.
format oh boy
why isn't this thing format like why
does
that okay let me just think about what
is it that we
do okay so let's just say that the first
packet the first packet I'm going to
assume that packet is a
frame receive and process decoded frames
on the decoder so this sends that I
don't actually know what this does this
is Av code extend packet which does what
Supply a raw packet data as input to a
decoder
this will usually be a single video
frame or several complete audio frames
perfect that's what we were looking
for okay so my guess is that this
receive frame
decoded
Wait no that's
right but then how do we run the scaler
let's see what does this do
so that is called on a frame
so uh
Frame data zero is null
print
F wait is that a real thing that's
probably fake that's probably fake
news can I do
that
bu is
empty is that
work is that not a
thing the frame is
empty the out
aloc this is on a
video wait can I do it on a frame
frame AV set frame set
format set format okay I don't know um
right so the um so wait so what do I
want to know right now
is I want to know that I want to know
this I want to print this
out is there a way to print out oh yeah
you know what it is it's
um uh AV pixel
format why doesn't that work
dude AV
pixel there's literally a thing like
that do I have to put like something
stupid like enum in front of
it [__] see
okay all
right I don't think this is going to
work pixel format
one uh this is codec
context pixel format what I want
is a V get
pixel wait no no
no it should be yeah this is zero this
is
one
um how do I print this out okay so
let me that's something GPT could get um
I have an enum like this pixel types and
I have codec
context to pix format which
is how do I print out the name of the
enum instead
of just the
int oh you got to be kidding
me okay wait hold on uh FFM Peg oh
wait forgot to do
something for
oh get pixel okay
cool is that real okay
good AV get pixel format
name thank you baby thank you I wanted
that
okay perfect we are getting somewhere
very
slowly
damn I will say
though
C compilation is pretty
fast that is one thing that's kind of
nice man can it get Sunny already I'm
sick of this weather
okay so now how do we set format what
does this do transmute a value into what
the oh wait set format literally just
does that oh that's so sick that's easy
bro so that means that we can just
do on the video so that means that we
should be able to just set the frame
format so
uh no we
want and wait we could actually do this
did
it okay
cool s we so that that's because it
failed to receive the packet probably
because in receive
frame no no no wait where were we we
were here we also need to set the
width and the width comes
from the where do I get the width codak
context also has the width and codak
context got the WID width from
where it it took that from the
parameters of
the Stream So the
stream had codec parameters that we're
using so if we
actually looked at
this so what what is this return oh wait
let's do this see what that returns this
returns AV codec
parameters okay you know what this is
not that bad so now what I want to do is
I want to print out the
width uh
uh
stream codec par
width
okay so now we just need to
do I wonder if there's like
a there's probably a easier way to do
this
but uh
frame
width okay let's try it
again so we're still not receiving that
right set
height AV frame get buffer so this
probably oh you know what okay
damn it all right I was I was sort of
hoping that one was going to do
it cuz this probably
allocates the yeah so that means that we
actually can write to
it okay
I'm guessing that that
is accurate anyways
okay so what did we do
so we should have a a video is literally
just a frame like I don't really get
that thing at all but so now we have our
frame and then we we uh get the buffer
for it and this does this return
anything okay let's see uh int did get
buff print The Bu the frame
RGB oh
yeah H this thing is so
stupid we should be able to just do this
oh
damn zero means we're all good
right okay so we were able to allocate
the buffer which I didn't expect to have
any issue with so that's good
for
oh wait frame is not
empty okay
wait frame
format wait why did that why is that
that's not
right the frame
format can I print the uh
is that a
function
strange
for for
[Music]
okay
so frame
format after
set but then
did we do anything to the
packet do we need to set a bunch of
settings in a
packet host
duration AV buffer ref do we need to
allocate all that
probably AV packet buff outlock or
something something alock buff I don't
know
oh there you go that's what we
want so why
so why did frame
format get set back
to damn I wish it linked to the actual
thing
oh
wait wait what send packet receive
packet and then here we do this and then
we call it again
for for
minus one just means that the frame was
the format was never set I
guess let me get a pixel format so we
set all
this
oh uh
damn what is going wrong man
that's the problem with using all these
ins instead of results I really do like
result in in
option they're such useful
abstractions okay send packet can we
just check if the in was
sent do we we do anything special to
this packet
here
packet packet or new item is a tuple of
stream
packet the next gives you an
option does this it says init
packet me zeroed init packet so all we
did was these two I think one of these
is deprecated but it should be all good
let's see okay that doesn't return
anything
so then we call packet.
read and we do something with the stream
which I don't know and then we give it
the packet and that's all so the packet
probably should be all good but do we
need to
we don't need to do like a packet
buffer I would assume that we're going
to need to do that
somehow
wait okay
zero means it's good that I I
I get very confused by
that fine so the packet was
sent and the frame is not
empty so wait can I get frame
planes decoder like display picture
number sure
the line size
zero wait can I look
at what else is in here
but but isn't there an NB I thought
there was a number of lines too
po it to the
picture crop
top yeah I want to know the number of
channels
well that's
clearly not
right oh oh LOL yes that is right okay
has functions for cropping in here
that's kind of
interesting Hardware accelerated format
frames
hm it's kind of interesting that they do
everything sort of it could either be
video or it could either be audio or
maybe it could even be both it's
probably that it could be both is why
they do that so let's look at the pack
get
size
um okay we can do this and then we also
want to be frame packet size which I
don't know hopefully they're not
different but do this to
packet okay there was an error that's
cuz this is no longer in existence
we should be
good well that's not
good do we need to set parameters on
this
packet why is it so complicated to take
a
picture how do you get the length of
this thing
this will probably be out of bounds or
something wait what the
hell I could have
sworn that's
weird all right this better
crash what the
hell how do we get the number of
planes I'm pretty sure it is
one plane I'm pretty sure that's
right I don't know why there's only one
plane for
yv but I remember it was different cuz I
remember when I was using the other
webcam the one that I'm using to stream
right
now I had
uh three planes and it was uh
yuv420 so what the hell is going on here
for
oh that's what we
call for
can we print that out do we we probably
already do print that
out
packet stream
Index close input put free
context not doing this close input we
have this needs to
be Cod at context
probably okay so my so I want to do this
um
thing
now wait receive
frame needs to be receive
frame that's not
right receive
frame needs to be
this Okay cool so that did not change
the I mean this is
like questionable and this is obviously
very
questionable do I need to call it after
no I
can't what the hell all right well I'm
just going to try to
run this thing
so this is going to
be scaler wait no no no we already did
that what I'm looking for
is this
and this returns an
INT that's interesting
oh wait actually you know what I want to
do well okay uh
well that's not right oh yeah that is
right that's a freaking
pointer okay so that's not
good here I want to do this I want to
say um
do you see any issues
here for
okay wait
uh what do I change out
this that's
pointless rewriting is the
webcam captor and see not done
okay so let's see this is probably going
to be really bad though so where do I
need to put
that okay let me read what it
says y program allocates frames and
attempts to get buffers for them but
there are issues with the initialization
of packets and the use of those frames
and packets and encoding and decoding
process you allocate a packet but don't
load any actual data into it before
sending it to the
decoder that is true
that is absolutely
true so how do
we Okay
so my guess is that the the
frame is
good
meaning the question is where are we
actually getting
so we open this
decoder we get our pixel format
name we allocate a
frame we check that the frame is not
set then we
um get a frame
buffer and then we
call
no yeah so we're not
actually where is it actually
so this is
the wrapper
around okay so we need
to we need to get this
guy
packets okay so
where read frame format
okay so that's what we need to
call return the next frame of a stream
okay int did read
frame oh wait we should actually say
whatever did read
frame okay
cool okay so cool perfect so let's see
this divided by
640 H that's a little bit of a strange
number oh you know what no it's not a
strange
number oh wait we got a frame did scale
wait what does that
mean oh
baby I think it's
working I think it's working sort of
okay wait
so so I just need to say read frame
so the um so this
decodes so wait
so was
s
um so this reads the frame from the
Stream
can
I so I don't know what this first frame
actually needs to
do oh you know what I think that
receive
frame no yes see this is the this is
supposed to be this guy
I don't know why the frame packet size
is
wrong but
then so this this should write
everything put the resulting scaled
slice in the image in
D perfect
[Music]
interesting
interesting oh wait can we the format is
definitely going to be
right cuz I just manually set that so
this should say
RGB oh wait that's not
right uh
um oh wait can do you print a
string
what oh
wait what what is
it
okay so it's a little confusing where
the line size is like that
but the height of the output
slice oh that's a random thing to return
whatever whatever whatever whatever okay
so I think this is good but now I want
to save the frame RGB to a jpeg
St
for
for for
okay so in that case let's say that I
don't have to re-encode
it but I do
need this thing do I need that thing
[Music]
does jpeg not support RGB
boy oh boy
okay does PNG
support
RGB
does for
okay yeah so I shouldn't have said
jpeg oh nice that's actually what I want
[Music]
okay so we send the frame
okay
cool I'm down with that
oh wow wait it worked what's the
resolution though all right let's try
that one more
time cool
it doesn't D duplicate this
[__] oh wait I should do
a um
see
okay these should be gists but I don't
really care new what does new
do I don't think new does anything
newe just makes an
input okay so we should be able to
delete
that probably get rid of both of
these for
okay so uh Delete
hold
programs they R
me okay I'll make
a okay so that was actually pretty cool
so
in whatever 200 lines of code most of it
just printing
[__] we were able
to um to capture some data from the
webcam all right so the next step and I
think that now that I've sort of gotten
a hang of the cap API and I'm not as
scared of format strings I guess I'll
probably keep writing the C
program and I'll try
to write a new example that
um that does video and so we'll try to
save a video from the
webcam then even harder than that is
going to be trying to
uh do audio and video at the same time
how long did that take me by the
way damn hold on I'm going to set up
some ethernet really quick I'm going to
fix this
[__] frame drop
thing it's probably because I'm on the
wrong Wi-Fi but hold on I'm going to get
ethernet
for
for e
maybe my uh
I mean this is crazy 50% of my frames
drop I don't know I couldn't tell that
the video quality was all that bad
when
I this is no bueno
though I wonder what it is
I me I could drop the FPS but I feel
like I don't want to go below 30 I did
that for a
while I mean this is what I don't
understand is like if you
need 192 kilobits a second for
audio and then my
maximum oh wow it went to zero actually
yeah it is like
57 I'm surprised though because I feel
like this is a pretty high bit rate
oh 320 but even still
though I just don't understand why it's
so it should be more stable is I guess
what I'm
it's really annoying
well I'll need to go through my old
streams and
see okay
so for
to modify your program to capture 100
frames from a video source and save them
as an mp4 file you'll need to set up an
encoder for the video format configure
an output file format
context and handle the frame encoding
and multiplexing process this involves a
bit more complexity than just saving a
single image because you need to manage
timestamps and correctly mck
video yeah I'm not doing the audio
God this is driving me crazy these drop
frames I'm going to go my phone and look
at the playback see if the playback is
bad
it's driving me
[Music]
mad gosh darn it okay let's
relax here
wait I have the Twitch app why don't I
just go
to wait I have the twitch
wait I have the
twitch I have
oh it is bad the frame rate is God awful
that's
crazy I mean it's really
bad oh it is bad frame rate is God awful
that's crazy
we need to F I need to figure this out
how do I debug
this damn this is pissing me
off just skip just skip down I don't
even need
down for
I'm so freaking upset how do I
you know what's crazy on my YouTube
literally the only comments I get are
like you use light theme bro I noticed
you use light theme it's like low
quality dgen [__] commentary
commenting on the theme of my
editor I hurt the message and I pin it
but I uh I think it's really low quality
um
okay well I don't know here's what I'll
do I'll try to maybe can I drop the bit
rate live probably not
right oh I can let's drop it to five
okay let me just ask chat
gbt what I'm noticing on my
stream I have six kill
uh for
I
mean I'm
unwired
yeah downstairs I get 20
but down is the important thing for this
is up loing for streaming you need to
upload
well no no no I know that I
okay no no no I know that I'm getting
six now
unwired but I'm just
wondering is that the reason for the
frame drops cuz up until a week ago I
was never getting you know the frame
drops would be like 4% now it's 62%
no no no the video bit rate has been set
at 6 kilobits a second for 6,000
kilobits 6 megabits for a long time
that's what I've used for the past
year but not
60%
yeah but what happened CU I used to get
12 down out or 12 up out
here I know down there it's great I
don't know what's the difference I'm on
an ethernet
connection I know I'm asking you I'm
asking chat
gpt2 I thought you were going straight
there oh
okay yeah
okay oh okay as a rule of thumb your
upload speed should be at least double
your streaming bit rate to accommodate
fluctuations okay well I dropped it by
a reasonably good amount I mean let's
try to drop it even more and then I'm
going to restart the Stream